And I also work on some of the
internal plug-ins that we ship.
The FxPlug community has really
been growing by leaps and bounds
over the past several years.
We found that we have everything
from one-person shops to large
companies writing FxPlugs.
And they encompass
everything from hobbyists to
Oscar-award-winning developers.
You can see some of their effects
in movies like Harry Potter,
Lord of the Rings, and things like that.
So you're in good company.
Plus, it's just really kick-ass to
write plug-ins for a living,
you know?
So what we're going to talk about
today is what the FxPlug SDK is.
You'll learn how you can
write FxPlug plug-ins.
We'll talk about what's new in 1.2.2
and the soon-to-be-released 1.2.3.
I'll talk about porting your plug-ins
to FxPlug from other architectures.
So if you've already got
some After Effects plug-ins
or things like that,
you can bring them over to FxPlug.
Paul Schneider's going to
come up and talk about working
with FxPlugs in Final Cut Pro.
And then Pete Warden's going to
talk about some advanced topics,
some OpenGL things,
and how to get your things
running really quickly.
quickly.
So what is the FxPlug SDK?
Well,
it's a visual effects architecture that
we created at Apple for the Pro apps,
and it's hosted in Motion, Final Cut Pro,
and Final Cut Express.
It's Objective-C based,
so if you've been writing Cocoa code
and Objective-C code already,
you're already familiar
with how to use it,
and it uses OpenGL for
extreme performance.
So why would you want to write an
FX plug versus some other type of plugin?
The biggest reason is that
we have a million registered
users of Final Cut Pro.
We probably have a few
more users than that,
but registered users is about a million.
As I said, you can get extreme
performance using OpenGL,
and most of your plugins can
probably run in real time,
which your users will really love.
You produce a universal binary,
works on PowerPC and Intel,
and that's apparently a new feature
for some other architectures.
You can have custom UI in
your parameter list,
so if you want to have, say,
curves or something that we don't supply,
you can make that yourself.
You don't have to if you don't want to,
but the option is there.
And the great thing is that you'll
base it on Cocoa and you can
build it in Interface Builder.
Paul will talk about that a little bit.
So you can really
rapidly develop nice UIs.
You can get pixels that are in
RGBA format or YCBCR with alpha format.
You can get floating point pixels.
So if you're working with extended
dynamic range and you need to,
you know,
avoid clamping and things like that,
you have that option.
In Motion, you can create onscreen
controls using OpenGL,
and that allows the user to directly
manipulate whatever is on the canvas so
they don't have to just set parameters.
They can actually move things
around and things like that.
And you can also get some 3D
information about where your
layers are located in space,
where cameras are located,
things like that.
So I'm going to go over how
to write an FXPlug plugin.
We'll talk about how
to create a new file,
a new project in Xcode,
we'll create some unique IDs to identify.
We'll write some source code to
create our parameters and render.
And then we'll build and install.
And hopefully that goes well.
We'll test it and then ship it.
So let's look at this.
In Xcode, to create a new project,
you go to the File menu
and select New Project.
And it brings up the
new project assistant.
And you can see we've got under the
heading of standard Apple plugins,
we have FXPlugs.
And there are three types
of FXPlugs you can write.
There's the standard,
which is the standard,
which is the standard plugin.
And then there's the standard,
which is the standard,
which is the standard plugin.
There's FX generator,
which takes no image input.
So if you're generating
a pattern of some sort,
you don't need to modify
an existing image,
something like a checkerboard or
stripes or a fractal or something,
you'd create a generator.
And FX filter takes a single image input.
So if you're doing a color correction or
a distortion where you take an image and
you modify it in some way and output it,
that would be a filter.
And there are FX transitions.
And these are for moving
between two images.
So if you want to do a crossfade or
some sort of flying in and flying out,
that sort of thing,
you'd have a transition.
So once you choose which
one you want to write,
it asks you for a name
and where to put it.
We'll call this my filter.
And it brings up the source
code and the resources.
And the first thing you're
going to want to do is open up
that Info.plist resource file.
And in there,
you'll find the pro plug plugin list.
And this is a -- excuse me --
pro plug plugin group list.
And this is the list of all the groups
that your plugins are going to go into.
You can have more than
one plugin in a binary.
In this example, we'll just make one.
So we only need one group.
I'm going to call it my filter.
You can put them into existing groups.
Like I think we have color
correction and distortion,
for example, in motion.
Or you can create your own.
Most people create their own.
You might have it named after your
company or named after the particular
product that you're working on.
Whiz bang filters 1.0 or whatever.
But the important thing is
this unique identifier here.
You generate this UUID,
a universally unique identifier,
by using the command line tool UUID gen.
And I'll talk about how to do
that without going out to the
command line in a little bit.
But it's a unique number.
Every time you run the command,
you get a unique number.
Every other developer who runs
it will get a unique number,
too.
So then you find the ProPlug
plugin list in the InfoP list file,
and this is the list of all the plugins
that are going to be in this binary.
As I said, in this case,
we just have one,
and you can see we have keys for
the class name that it corresponds
with and the display name.
And you'll notice we have group.
And again,
this UUID is the same one that we
just generated on the previous slide,
and this says that this filter
goes into the group with that UUID.
And the reason we use IDs instead
of names is because it's potentially
possible that you might come up with
a name like Cool Filters or something,
and some other developer
comes up with the same name.
You want to make sure that
yours go into the right place.
And likewise,
you need to generate another
unique ID for your actual plugin.
So if you have a plugin with one name,
it doesn't conflict with anyone else,
or if somebody's using a
localized version of the
app in a different language,
we don't search by name,
we search by UUID.
And the easy way to do this is
to write a little script and put
it in the script menu in Xcode.
If you look on the right
side of the Xcode menu bar,
there's a little scroll menu
and that's the script menu.
If you open that up,
you'll see a bunch of
scripts that you can run.
And you can create your own scripts.
In this case, this is a bin sh script.
And it's a single command,
echo minus n back tick uuidgen back tick.
And you can either put this in slash
library slash application support slash
apple slash developer tool slash scripts.
Or you can go to the script menu and
I think the bottom item is edit scripts.
And if you do that,
it will bring up a dialogue right
in Xcode and you can add new ones
and change the existing ones.
And once you do that,
you can just select the uuid
in the Info.plist file and
then from the script menu,
choose new uuid or whatever you named it.
And it will replace the one that's there.
And as you can see,
we put a comment in there that
says you must change this group ID.
And there's another one for
the actual plugin ID as well.
Okay, so then you're going to have
to write some source code.
I'm going to go into much greater
detail about this in a little bit,
but suffice it to say you
need to add your parameters.
This is, you know,
if you've got sliders for controlling
the amount of blur or the size
of something in your filter,
you need to add those
to the parameter list.
And then you need to write
the code that's actually
going to render your output.
And you can do that in
either the CPU or the GPU.
We highly encourage you to write
both so that the host application can
decide which is better for it to use
and then choose the appropriate one.
So then you'll build.
Just choose build from the build menu.
And assuming you don't get any
errors that you need to correct,
you need to install the plug-in.
And the plug-ins go in either
slash library slash plug-in slash
FxPlug or in tilde slash library
slash plug-in slash FxPlug.
And obviously you don't want to have
to be copying the built binary every
time you're done building it to test it.
So what you can do is create a
symlink from the plug-ins directory
pointing back to your built library.
It's just ln minus sf.
The path to your built
library or your built plug-in,
I should say.
And then the path to
the plug-in directory.
And then you can just build and run.
And of course,
you're going to want to run.
You're going to want to test in
both Motion and Final Cut Pro.
In Motion,
if you click on the Library tab
in the Inspector window,
you'll see you get,
on the left-hand side,
you get a list of categories,
two of which are filters and generators.
And if you click on Filters,
on the right, you'll see the groups,
and these are the groups that you
create and that we create internally.
And you can see there's the
My Filter group that we created,
and if you click on that, down below,
you see all the filters in that group.
In this case, it's just My Filter.
Likewise, in Final Cut Pro,
in the Browser window,
there's the Effects tab.
There are folders for video transitions,
video filters, and video generators.
If you twirl open the video filters,
you should see My Filter in there,
and if you twirl that open,
you should see the actual
filter inside the folder.
All right,
so let's talk about the SDK and
get into some of the details.
FxPlugs are a form of ProPlug,
and these are NSBundles that we
use in Pro apps to extend the
functionality of our applications.
Plug-in classes are going to conform
to certain plug-in protocols,
and I'll describe those in a
lot more detail in a second.
And host applications are going to
provide objects to the plug-ins so
that they can talk back to the host
app and ask it for things and tell
it things that it needs to know.
So what are these protocols?
Well, in Objective-C,
a protocol is similar to an abstract base
class in C++ or an interface in Java.
It's a description of things
that will be implemented.
It doesn't have any
implementation behind it.
And you create your class,
and you say it implements a protocol,
you have to write the
functionality for those functions,
or methods, I should say.
So in this case,
we see we've got a protocol
called fxBaseEffect,
and it has two methods.
There's actually a couple more,
but these are the two
important ones for now.
AddParameters is where you'll actually
set up your sliders and checkboxes and
custom parameters and things like that.
And then ParameterChanged is where
the host app will call back into
your plug-in and tell it that
somebody changed a parameter.
You can use that for
supervision if you've got,
say, a min and a max,
and you always want to keep the
maximum greater than the minimum.
You can keep those in sync there.
Now, that's the BaseEffect protocol.
There are two other protocols,
fxGenerator and fxFilter.
Actually,
there's one for fxTransitions as well.
And you can see that they both
inherit from fxBaseEffect.
That's what the brackets there mean.
And fxGenerator adds the
renderOutputWithInfo method.
And that's because it can create
an output without any input.
You'll see fxFilter has
renderOutputWithInputWithInfo.
And that's because it takes an
input image as one of its inputs
and as one of its arguments
and then generates its output.
Now, both of these, when you implement an
fxFilter and fxGenerator,
also include the addParameters
and parameterChanged methods.
So let's look at our add parameters
method and how we'd write that.
When you want to tell the
host app to do something,
like create a new parameter,
you need to first get an
object from the API manager.
You'll be passed the API manager
in your initialization method.
It's usually called a
knit with API manager.
And it's an object that you use
to communicate back with the host.
In this case, we tell the API manager,
give us the API for this
particular protocol.
In this case, it's the FX parameter
creation API protocol.
It's kind of a mouthful, but basically,
we're going to be creating parameters.
Give us the object that allows
us to create parameters.
Once you get it,
you can call add float slider with name,
add point parameter with name,
add color parameter with name,
things like that.
And that's all you have to do
to actually tell the host app
that you've got a parameter,
that you've got a slider or whatever.
You don't need to go into Interface
Builder if you don't want to.
You don't need to write any
action methods to get called
back and things like that.
The host app will take care of
all the keyframing and everything.
So obviously, there are a lot of
different parameter types.
There is the floating point slider.
Looks like our graphics aren't showing.
Oh, there we go.
OK.
So we've got the floating point slider,
the integer slider.
Sorry about that.
Let's go back here.
We've got toggle buttons,
which are just check boxes,
an angle slider, which is a knob.
We've got RGB colors with alpha,
and that's kind of nice so you
don't have to have two parameters,
a color parameter and
then an alpha slider,
unless you do it all in one.
Likewise,
we have 2D points so that you can
place across here right on the canvas
and let the user drag things around,
so if they want to position
some aspect of your plug-in,
it gives them direct feedback,
which is really nice.
Pop-up menu, this can have any number
of textual items in it.
You can have an image.
And the great thing about an
image well is that it doesn't
have to be a still image.
It can be.
It can be footage.
In Motion,
it can be a group which contains
footage and stills and shapes
and other things like that.
So it gives the user a lot of power.
So they're very useful.
You can have text if you want to
have some sort of titling plug-in.
It's really useful for that.
And you can have groups of parameters,
which is really nice.
If you've got a lot of parameters,
and you'll find that some users really
like having a lot of parameters,
you can group some of them together.
The user can twirl/close
the ones they aren't using.
It cleans up the UI,
makes it a little easier to use.
You can have custom parameters,
as I said.
And I'll talk about these in
greater detail in a minute.
But you can have them
be anything you want.
In this case,
we've got this crazy text style.
You could have an RGB curves,
things like that,
all kinds of things that
you can do with that.
We have some optional
parameter types you can use,
histogram for doing levels
and things like that.
A gradient parameter.
And this is really great because
you don't have to have the user
go out to an image editing app,
create a one pixel high image,
import it into the project,
find it in the project,
and then drop it on your plug-in.
You can just put a gradient
parameter right there,
and you can see they can create all
kinds of gradients with that directly.
Okay.
So once we have these parameters,
of course, we have to get their
values in order to render.
We might have a blur amount that we
need to get or something like that.
So it's the same thing as before.
We ask the API manager for
the object that implements
the parameter retrieval API.
And once we have it,
we just call get float
parameter from RAM at time.
And we give a unique ID to each of
our parameters when we create them,
and that's how we identify them.
And these are just -- you know,
we usually just number
them starting at one.
They aren't UUIDs or anything like that.
And you'll notice that it's got
that time parameter in there.
In some other applications,
when you want to get a parameter at a
different time than the current time,
you have to check out the parameter,
do something with it,
and then check it back in.
And that's really cumbersome.
So we made it a lot easier for you.
You just pass it the
time value that you want,
and you should get that.
Likewise, for setting values,
you'll get the object which
implements the parameter setting API,
and then you'll just say set
float value to parm at time,
set int value to parm at time.
And that's how you can
do parameter supervision.
For example, you get the min and the max,
and if the max is less than the min,
set it to one greater than the min,
things like that.
Okay, so let's look at custom
UI in a little more detail.
You can assign a custom UI to
either a standard parameter,
like a floating point parameter,
or to a custom parameter,
which is some custom data
that you will create yourself.
For example, if you're doing curves,
we don't have any sort of data
type that works with curves,
so you'd have to create that.
They're going to appear in the inspector,
just like all the other parameters.
They'll be in the parameter list.
They can be resizable,
and it's going to be
a subclass of NSView.
So if you've been writing Cocoa code,
you already know how to write an NSView.
And it will act just like an NSView that
was created by the application.
And you can create them programmatically,
which I'll show,
and Paul's going to show how to
do them in Interface Builder.
So let's look at some of
the things that we can do.
Okay, so the basic tasks are we have to
tell the host app that we can support,
that we can host a custom parameter view,
and we do that by adding the
FxCustomParameterViewHost protocol
to our class declaration.
We'll need to create the custom
parameter in the add parameters method.
We'll need to write the, well,
we'll need to tell the host app that
we're going to add the parameter
in the add parameters method,
and then we'll have
to write the function,
the method,
which actually creates the view
and returns it to the host app.
And then we'll have to
write code to draw the view,
respond to events like mouse down,
key down, things like that.
And then we'll write code to
modify the data if there's
custom data associated with it.
So let's look at that.
This is a typical class declaration.
You can see we've got the interface,
my plug, it's a subclass of NSObject,
and it implements the FxFilter
protocol because it's a filter.
Well, all you have to do is add comma
FxCustomParameterViewHost to that,
and that tells the host
application that you're able to
host a custom parameter view.
So in "Add Parameters" we need
to actually tell the host app
which of our parameters are
gonna be custom parameters.
And we do that by getting the
FX parameter creation API object and then
calling add custom parameter with name.
We pass it a parameter ID.
You can have more than
one custom parameter.
So later when you go to create them,
you'll get past the ID of which
one you're supposed to create.
Pass it a default value.
In this case,
we've got a type that we've created
called "point array." And then you
have to pass it the custom UI flag.
It's K FX parameter flag custom UI.
And that tells it that this
custom parameter has custom UI.
Then you have to actually create
it or read it in from a nib or
whatever you're going to do.
And you do that in your
createViewForParm method.
And as you can see,
it passes you the ID of the parameter
that it wants you to create.
It'll get called once for each
parameter that has custom UI.
So in this case, we check it to see which
one we're creating.
We're creating the myCustomItemID.
And we allocate our custom view and
then call its initialization method.
And we pass it the API manager
so it can do some things later.
And then we simply return the NSView,
the pointer to the
NSView that we get back.
And that's all there is
to actually creating it.
Now you've actually got to do all the
things that you would do for an NSView.
So you're going to have to override
the drawRect method to draw
whatever it is you're drawing.
You're going to have to override
all the NSResponder methods,
things like mouseDown, mouseDragged,
keyDown, and respond to all those things.
If you want to assign contextual menus,
you can do that.
And the view controller that you
write is going to want to change
the value of the custom data.
It's going to want to tell
the custom parameter view to
update and things like that.
In order to communicate
back with the host,
there's a little problem here, though.
And that's that because you're an
NSView and it's in the application
just like any other NSView,
the OS calls it directly to do things
like redraw and respond to events.
So the host app doesn't know that
you've been called to do that.
So if you start asking for parameters,
it gets a little confused.
So we have the custom parameter
action API in order to handle that.
And what this is is it's just like any
other thing you get from the API manager.
You ask for the object,
which implements that API.
And it has a method called startAction.
And what this says is we're going
to start modifying some parameters.
And you pass it a pointer
to the custom view.
And it says this is the view that's
going to be modifying parameters.
The other thing is you've
been called by the OS,
as I said,
so you don't know what the current
timeline time is because usually
that's passed to you as a parameter
to your render method or your
parameter change method or whatever.
Actually, not parameter change,
just your render method.
So you don't know what the current
timeline time is because usually
that's passed to you as a parameter
to your render method or your
parameter change method or whatever.
So in order to get that,
you have to ask the action
API for the current time.
Then you can do all the usual
things you'd do as if it was
any other part of your plug-in.
You can get and set parameter
values and things like that.
And when you're done to clean up,
you just call end action and pass
it a pointer to that NSView again.
Okay,
so if you've got custom data associated
with your custom parameter view,
you need to write some
code to deal with that.
You're going to need to make
it an NSObject subclass,
and it's going to need to
implement the NSCoding protocol.
One of the things you're going to have
to do is create some default data for it.
In this case,
we've created a class method called
emptyData that returns some empty
data that we can pass as a default.
And the other thing you're
going to want to do is pass the
not-animatable flag because currently
custom data is not key-frameable.
Hopefully we'll get that in the future,
but we seem to keep putting
it off for some reason.
But as I said, you need to implement the
NSCoding protocol for your data.
And what that does is it allows us
to have you serialize your data for
writing out to the user's document.
So when the user saves,
we'll call your ENCODE_WITH_CODER method.
You'll serialize your data just like
you would in any other Cocoa app.
And then later when we read
in the user's document,
we'll ask you to deserialize it,
and we'll call your
INIT_WITH_CODER method to do that.
So that's parameters and custom
parameters in particular.
Let's look at rendering.
Now,
all rendering happens with an FxImage.
An FxImage is a base class,
and there are two subclasses of it.
FxTexture, which is a thin wrapper
around OpenGL textures,
and that's how you do
hardware-accelerated stuff,
and FxBitmap,
which will give you-- it's basically a
wrapper around a RAM-based bitmap image,
and that's convenient for
doing things with code that
you might have already written,
say, for another plug-in architecture.
In the case of -- well, actually,
both FX bitmaps and FX textures can have
a number of different pixel formats.
You can get 8-bit integer ARGB.
For textures only,
you can get 16-bit float ARGB.
And for both of them,
you can get 32-bit float ARGB.
If you want, you can get 8-bit integer
R4-08 or 32-bit float R4FL.
And those are YCBCR formats.
And they're described in letters
from the ice flow 19 and 27.
If you go to developer.apple.com
and search for letters from
the ice flow or just ice flow,
it should pop those up.
They're QuickTime documents.
Bitmaps have pre-multiplied alpha.
So keep that in mind if you have to
do some things -- you may need to
do some things that un-premultiply
them and just remember to
pre-multiply them when you're done.
And they have a row bytes parameter.
And I think Paul will get into
this in a little more detail.
But basically,
it tells you how many bytes
there are per scan line.
And if you're looking
at something that's,
say, 640 by 480 and it's an
8-bit integer ARGB format.
. . . You may think, okay,
so 640 by times 4 is
roughly 2400 bytes wide.
But you get the row bytes and you see,
oh, my gosh, it's like 5200.
What's that about?
Well, if you've got an interlaced
frame where you've got an
upper field and a lower field,
we may pass you a pointer to
the beginning of the frame,
tell you that the line is 640 pixels
wide but that it's 5200 bytes wide.
So just process the first 640 pixels,
skip the next 2400 bytes,
and go to the next line.
Don't assume that's what we're going
to do because we don't always do that.
The different applications
work differently.
Some applications do that, some don't.
So just always obey the row
bytes and you'll be fine.
Okay, FX textures, as I said,
they're a thin wrapper
around OpenGL textures.
You want to always get
the texture coordinates.
There's a method for getting those,
and your texture may be located
somewhere in texture space
that you're not expecting.
It's not necessarily always oriented
at the origin or anything like that,
so you need to make sure
you get the coordinates.
You can do a bind and
enable to start using them.
You can get the texture ID.
If you need to pass that to, say,
an OpenGL routine that
needs a texture ID,
you can get that.
They also have pre-multiplied alpha,
and I just want to give
you one small warning here.
You probably won't go creating
a lot of FX textures yourself.
They're not real useful for doing
things like communicating with the OS,
and generally it's hard for the host
app to tell who owns the texture,
so it doesn't know when it
can delete it if you do that.
So if you're just going to
be creating textures for your
own use and talking to OpenGL,
you can just create regular
OpenGL textures with
gl-gentext or whatever you use,
but when you communicate
with the host app,
you'll get... It'll give
you the FX textures,
and it may occasionally ask
you to give it an FX texture.
But in general,
it's just too thin of a wrapper
to do a lot with it other than
communicate with the host.
Okay, there's a whole bunch more FX plug
functionality that we don't
have time to get into today.
I think Paul's going to talk a
little bit about the FX timing API.
You can request images, input images,
at different times using the
temporal image API or the
temporal transition image API,
and that's good for doing
things like retiming or,
if you're doing something like this,
or if you're doing echo
or feedback effects.
In Motion,
you can get 3D layer and camera
position and orientation information.
You can create on-screen controls,
as I said.
In all the host apps,
you can get host information,
so you can tell if you're
running in Final Cut Express,
Final Cut Pro, Motion,
and you can get plug-in
versioning information.
So if you created version 1.0
of your product and somebody
applies it in their document,
and then later they update to version
2.0 and they open that document,
you can see that the data for
your plug-in was created with 1.0,
and you may need to add some
information to it or remove
some information or whatever.
[Transcript missing]
So we can use this to our advantage.
In After Effects,
you call the PFAddFloatSlider macro
to create a new floating point slider.
In FxPlugs, you call the Param API's
AddFloatSliderWithName method.
You know, they've got PFAddPoint.
We've got AddPointParameterWithName,
things like that.
So why don't we wrap these up
in some generic wrapper and
call it from both plug-ins?
In this case, what I'm going to do is I'm
going to create some FX helpers.
And so I've prefixed everything
with FXH for FX helper.
We're going to create a method,
a single function.
Because Objective-C is a superset of C,
we can use straight C in this.
So we're going to create
a single function,
which will add a float slider,
and it will do the appropriate
thing in After Effects and the
appropriate thing in FxPlug.
So this is what our header
is going to look like.
We're going to have a
fxh create float slider.
The first argument is going to be a
pointer to some app specific data.
Because each application has
different requirements of how
it has to create the parameter,
we're going to pass the
appropriate data in that pointer.
And then you can see the things that
are going to be the same among them.
The parameter name, the parameter ID,
the default value, the min and max,
things like that.
Likewise, we're going to have to have
a method to actually get that
value back when we go to render.
So we're going to call
fxh get float param,
and we're going to pass it
that app specific data again,
the ID and the time that we want.
So here's what it's going to
look like in After Effects.
The first thing we're going to do is
we're going to cast that app-specific
data to a pf indata pointer,
and that's the gigantic structure
that they send to your plugin.
And then we create a param def structure,
we clear it,
and we call the pf addFloatSlider macro.
And that's all there is to it for
adding a floating point slider.
Of course, it's very similar in FX Plug.
We cast that app-specific data
to be the object which implements
the parameter creation API,
and then we call
addFloatSlider with name,
pass it the name,
we pass it the parameter ID,
the default value, the min and the max,
and all that stuff.
So we can write a single function
called SetupGammaParameters,
if this is a gamma filter, for example,
and call that from both applications.
So this is how we'd call
it in After Effects.
We just call SetupGammaParameters,
and we pass it the inData pointer.
In FxPlug, we call SetupGammaParameters,
and we pass it the pointer
to the object that implements
the parameter creation API.
And then this is what
it actually looks like.
It calls the helper function
that we wrote earlier.
And when we compile for After Effects,
it'll call the After Effects version
of that function.
And when we compile for FxPlug,
it'll call the FxPlug
version of that function.
So in summary,
you can see that there's a pretty good
correspondence between the two APIs,
and other image and video processing
APIs are very similar as well.
You're going to implement
either a filter,
a generator, or a transition,
and you can write code that
will work both in FxPlug and
in After Effects and other
architectures as well pretty easily.
So I'm going to turn it over to Paul,
and he's going to talk about
advanced topics with Final Cut Pro.
So take it away, Paul.
Hi, everybody.
I'm Paul Schneider.
I'm an engineer in Final Cut working
on the plug-in hosting.
And today I'm gonna talk a little
bit about some more sort of,
uh...
[Transcript missing]
So I'll just go through these one by one.
The first, with the aspect ratio,
you can see that when we're
displaying it on the computer monitor,
we'll scale horizontally when we show
it to the user to simulate the actual
device that they'll be looking at it on.
So you need to be prepared
to handle aspect ratio.
And how do you do that in FxPlug?
Well, we tag each FX image
with an aspect ratio.
So you can simply ask your inputs and
your outputs what their aspect is and
then adjust your rendering accordingly.
The next one is the
interlaced processing.
We'll ask you to render one field of
video and then a second field of video,
and we'll interlace that together.
So you can see in this picture,
the first image is red,
the second is blue, and we combine them.
So you need to be ready for that.
Another--there's a difference between
Final Cut and Motion here as well.
In Final Cut,
the fields are half height because,
you know, we take--we combine two
of them to form a frame.
In Motion, they'll actually take
the half height fields,
they'll scale them to full height,
so it's a little easier to process,
but not quite as fast.
So you need to be ready
for handling fields,
and you need to be ready for the
difference between Final Cut and Motion.
And this is how you do
that inside the FxPlug API.
Similar to aspect ratio,
each image is tagged with a field.
The Fx field in them will
be either the lower field,
the upper field,
or a full progressive frame if you're
working in a progressive sequence.
And then we have the
host capabilities object,
which gives you information
about the host you're running in.
And one of the things you can ask about
is whether this host upscales fields.
If this is yes, then you're running
in an app like Motion,
where the fields will be stretched
to full height for you to process.
If this is no, then you're running in
an app like Final Cut,
where the fields will just
be the raw field data.
So you need to handle both cases.
Then finally, the low-resolution proxy,
you can see here in this example, we've,
um, we've asked you to process an
image that's half the size,
and then we'll scale that up for display,
just to make playback faster
or something like that.
And you can tell this is
going on by looking at the,
um,
the scale info in the render info struct
that we passed to you during render.
So we have the scale x and scale y.
If, uh, we're rendering 1:1,
these will be 1.0.
If we're rendering half size,
it'll be 0.5, et cetera.
So that seems like a
lot to keep track of.
Um, but you can kind of combine them all
into just a single scale factor that
you use to adjust your rendering.
Here's a quick snippet of code, uh,
that shows how to do this.
This is, um,
taken directly from an example
plug-in that I'll be talking about
in a minute that ships with the SDK.
So don't worry about typing this down.
But you can see I'll
start out with a uniform,
you know, 1:1 scaling.
I'll scale-- I'll-- I'll take
the aspect ratio of my output,
and I'll adjust my
horizontal scale by that.
I'll check to see if I'm
working in a half-height field.
That's a two-part scale.
I'll check to see if I'm
working in a half-height field.
That's a two-part scale.
That's a two-part check.
First, check to see if, um,
I'm processing a field right now.
And second, check to see if the fields in
this application are half-height.
If both of those things are true,
then I'll adjust my
vertical scaling by 0.5.
And then finally,
I'll-- I'll blend in the, uh,
the resol-- the low-resolution proxy,
if there is any.
So I'm just going to step
over to the demo machine,
and this is a lot easier to
see than it is to talk about.
You can see here I've got a plugin
called Scrolling Rich Texts.
We shipped this with the SDK.
It's one of our examples.
And this is just a simple
plugin for example purposes.
Let's see you scrub through,
and we'll do an easy title crawl here.
This also demonstrates the sort
of gotchas I was talking about.
This plugin correctly
handles aspect ratio,
half height fields, and the render scale.
But it also allows you to turn handling
for each of those situations off so
you can see what difference it makes.
For example here, if I turn off handling
of the aspect ratio,
you can see the text
sort of gets squished.
This is an NTSC sequence,
which has an aspect of 0.9.
It's pretty close to 1.0.
So the squishing isn't that obvious.
If I was working in HD or
with an anamorphic sequence,
the squishing would be pretty similar.
It would be pretty severe.
It would be obviously wrong.
So you can see, but when I turn on the
aspect ratio handling,
the text looks correct.
The second one is the half height fields.
If I turn off support for that,
the text is twice as big as it should be.
This is because I'm drawing
that text into each field,
and Final Cut is
interlacing them together.
So if I draw the text
at full height twice,
it's going to be twice
as tall as it should be.
So I need to adjust that,
draw my text at half height
into each field so that when
the two fields are combined,
it looks correct.
And this third one is render scale.
And this one is something a lot of people
miss because if you drop support for it,
it doesn't seem like there's
any problem right away.
But when you go to play back,
suddenly the text is twice as
big as it's supposed to be.
And this is because by default,
at the default settings,
Final Cut will drop down to
half resolution during playback
for an effect where it doesn't
have any profiling information.
It doesn't know how fast it is.
So when we drop down to half resolution
and I draw my text full height for full
size into the half resolution image,
Final Cut's going to scale that image up.
It's going to double it in size.
The text is going to be twice as big.
What I need to do is
look at my render scale,
see that I'm currently
rendering at half resolution,
and then draw the text smaller
so when it gets scaled up,
it'll look correct.
And you can see here,
that's exactly what happens.
So I'm just going to go through a
couple of the features of this plug-in,
which, as I said, it comes with the SDK.
It's sort of a grab bag plug-in
that shows you how to do a
lot of things that people have
asked about on the mailing list.
So as I said,
this is a fairly simple title crawl.
It's a generator.
One nice thing about this is that the
title crawl animation takes up the
duration of the item in the timeline.
So at the first frame,
my text is all the way at
the bottom of the screen.
At the last frame, text is all the way at
the top of the screen.
This is true no matter how much
time the generator takes up.
If I want to trim it in the timeline,
the animation stays the same.
The crawl speeds up so that I'm
at the bottom of the canvas here,
I'm at the top of the canvas here.
And you can see I've
got some controls here.
I can make the text bigger or smaller.
I can change the size.
I can change the value.
These are standard FxPlug controls.
Control types, parameter types.
I didn't have to write
any special code for this.
And you can imagine there's a lot
more I could do with this text.
I could change the typeface.
I could maybe change the justification.
I didn't want to add all of those
controls to an example plug-in.
What I decided to do instead was
if you want more rich formatting,
just allow the user to pick an RTF file
somewhere on the disk and use that.
So you can see up here,
if I change the text type from
simple text to a text file,
all of these controls go away,
and they're replaced with
a new type of parameter,
which allows me to choose a file.
Now, this is not something that's
built into the FxPlug API.
This is a custom parameter
that I created myself.
So I created this UI in
Interface Builder,
and you can simply, you know,
choose a text file,
bring it into Final Cut, and here it is.
So this is a lot more
complicated text than,
um...
[Transcript missing]
Save it.
Go back to Final Cut.
Scroll down so I can see that change,
and there it is.
So this was pretty powerful
and not very much code.
I'm going to go back to the
slides now and talk about
how the plug-in was written.
So there's a couple of features
of the plug-in that people
asked about in the mailing list
that this tries to demonstrate.
The first is the FxTiming API,
which I believe we added in FxPlug 1.2.
The Timing API gives you a lot
of information about the context
of your effect and the timeline.
It'll tell you the frame rate
of the timeline you're in,
the start time and the duration of
your effect if you're a generator,
or even if you're not,
if you're a transition, say.
It'll also give you
information about your input.
So if you're a filter,
you can find the properties of the
clip that you've been applied to.
It'll also let you convert between
timeline times and item times.
If you've been applied to a clip that
doesn't have the same frame rate or
field order as the timeline you're in,
this allows you to do some conversion.
Now, this plug-in, you know,
obviously just uses it in a simple
way just to find out the duration
of the generator and the timeline.
So here's the code to do that.
The first thing I do is get the FxTiming
API object from the API manager,
similar to how I get
everything else in FxPlug.
And then I just ask the Timing
API for the duration of my effect.
And once I know how many
frames the effect takes up,
it's a pretty simple calculation to
look at the current frame I'm rendering,
find out how far into the
total number of frames that is,
and adjust the scrolling appropriately.
The next thing you may have
noticed is that this plug-in
features dynamic parameter display.
So you change that pop-up,
some parameters hide,
some new parameters show
that were previously hidden.
I'm just going to talk
about that quickly.
So if you want to add a dynamic
parameter display to your plug-in,
the first thing you'll probably
want to do is create some of
your parameters initially hidden.
And you can do this by passing the
KFX parameter flag hidden flag to
when you create your parameters
inside your add parameters method.
If you've got a hidden parameter,
you'll probably want
to show it eventually.
You can do this inside parameterChanged.
Here's just an example block
of code that sort of simulates
that menu tracking code.
So in my parameterChanged method,
I check to see if the parameter that
changed was the hideShow pop-up menu.
If it was,
I get the current value of the pop-up.
And if the pop-up is
currently set to hide,
I'll set the hidden flag on
the parameters I want to hide.
If the parameter is set to show,
I'll clear that hidden flag,
which makes the parameters visible.
[Transcript missing]
Another thing that you noticed
was I had some custom UI,
and rather than create my own custom
view class and implement the drawing
method and the mouse tracking methods,
I decided I didn't need that.
I just wanted to use some standard
AppKit controls and stick them in a view.
And the best way to do that
is with Interface Builder.
This is something that we hadn't shown
you how to do in our examples before,
and this one shows you how to do it.
So the first thing you do is you tell
InterfaceBuilder-- you create your nib,
and you tell InterfaceBuilder
about your plug-in class.
So the name of the class that implements
this plug-in is ScrollingRichText.
It's just--you can see I've told
InterfaceBuilder that this class exists.
It's a subclass of NSObject.
I'm going to tell Interface Builder
a little bit about the class.
The class is one outlet,
which is a pointer to a custom view.
And two actions,
choose text file and edit text file,
which correspond to those two
buttons you saw on the interface.
The next thing to do is
actually create the UI.
So I've added a view to my nib,
and I've dropped in two
buttons and just a static text.
Um, standard Cocoa controls.
Now I'm just going to
wire these things up.
Oh, no, I'm sorry.
The next thing you want to do is
change the files owner of the nib to
be an instance of your plug-in class.
So now this nib is owned by an instance
of the scrolling rich text class.
Now I can start wiring things up.
So I'll connect the file owner's
outlet to the view I've created.
So this scrolling rich text's custom view
points to the view that I've created.
And similarly,
I'll connect the buttons to the
actions of the file's owner.
So the Choose button will trigger
the Choose Text File action.
The Edit button will trigger
the Edit Text File action.
Now I'm ready to write
just a little bit of code.
Here's the declaration
for my plug-in class.
You can see it's a
FxCustomParameterView host
because it does have custom UI.
And there's the outlet and the actions
that I added in Interface Builder.
Now when I go to my Add My Parameters,
I'll create a custom parameter.
I'll pass the custom UI flag.
And you can see the default value of
this parameter is just an empty NSString.
Darrin talked about when you're
creating custom parameters,
you can create your own
class for the data type,
and you can do anything you want
as long as it conforms to NSCoding.
One of the nice things about FxPlug is
that AppKit actually ships with a lot of
classes that conform to NSCoding that you
can use directly if they meet your needs.
So if you want to use NSString, NSNumber,
NSData, you can.
You can just create a custom parameter,
use that as the data type,
and you don't have to write
any serialization code.
So now in my createViewForParm method,
this is when I actually create-- this is
when the host asks me to create the view
that'll be used for the custom parameter.
This is pretty easy,
'cause I did all the work
in InterfaceBuilder already.
So if I'm being asked to create
the UI for my text file path param,
I'll load the Nib for that
custom view I created,
and I'll pass myself as the owner.
Remember,
the owner of the Nib was an instance
of the scrolling rich text plugin.
This plugin is that class,
so I just pass myself.
And when the Nib is loaded,
the outlets and the actions are wired up.
So by the time the Nib is loaded,
my custom view pointer points
to a valid NSView instance.
So all I have to do is return it,
and I'm done.
And I'll just go back to the demo machine
quickly to show you that one more time.
You can see I've got my
standard controls here.
If I change the menu,
the plug-in's parameter
change method is called,
and it responds by setting the
hidden flag on some parameters,
clearing them on others.
So this new custom
parameter is now visible,
and here's the UI that
I created in Interface Builder.
Everything is wired up
with very little code.
With that,
I'm going to hand it over to Pete Warden,
who's going to talk about advanced
GPU topics inside Final FxPlug.
Thanks, Paul.
So I'm Pete Warden.
I've been doing a lot of
filter work over the years.
And the particular advanced topics
I'm going to be talking about are the
ones that relate to GPU programming.
In particular,
all the stuff you need to do to use
raw OpenGL to write GPU plug-ins.
Why is it so tricky?
OpenGL is not designed
for image processing.
It's an API that's
designed for 3D rendering.
It's possible to do
image processing with it.
It's possible to use the
GPU for image processing.
But you have to use some fairly
advanced and obscure features,
which have been hard to get
documentation and examples on.
The first thing I should say is
that Apple has recognized this
problem over the years and actually
has a couple of very nice APIs for
doing a lot of GPU processing,
like Quartz Composer and Core Image.
And we have quite a few developers who
are using these pretty successfully to
get the performance advantage that you
can get out of the GPU without having to
delve quite so deeply into some of the
dark and dusty corners of the OpenGL API.
But there's still a lot of valid
reasons why you may need to write
direct... ...directly to OpenGL.
So to answer developers' questions,
we actually put up one of our
internal filters into the SDK,
demonstrating the techniques that
we use to get very fast image
processing working on the GPU.
Probably the thing that we get
most questions about that's
most confusing is how you do
intermediate rendering on the GPU.
On the CPU, it's very simple.
You have a system memory bitmap that you
can just access as a piece of memory.
On the GPU,
you need something where you can
actually render into a texture
and then use that texture as a
source for subsequent operation.
Traditionally, that meant using pbuffers.
There are some other
alternatives like FBOs that I'm
going to briefly talk about.
We don't have any help from the host for
creating or managing these objects yet.
That's something we've
had a lot of requests for,
and we're definitely looking
at what we can do there.
But for now,
you should use the sample code that
we ship and actually look at the
pbuffer code that I'm going to talk
about a bit and use that as a basis.
for your own plugins.
So what is a P-Buffer?
It's a way of rendering into a texture.
The key attribute is
that it stays in VRAM.
Everything's still happening on the card.
It's very tempting when you're first
looking at doing GPU programming to
try and pull down image data from the
card to do just some CPU processing
on it to get some intermediate images,
but that completely kills performance.
You lose all of the parallelism
that you can get from running
both CPU and GPU code.
So, I think that's it.
FBOs are very similar
under the hood to PBuffers,
but they offer a much more modern and,
in a lot of ways,
easier to use interface.
And we're moving over to using FBOs,
but we still have a lot
of code using PBuffers,
and our example will show you how
to use PBuffers to do this stuff.
So this is the list of functions to
do with pbuffers that we actually
give you in the sample code.
I'm not going to spend too
much time talking about them,
but...
The create and destroy functions are
hopefully fairly self-explanatory.
That's how you create these images that
you're going to be using on the GPU.
When you want to actually
start drawing into the texture,
you need to redirect all
of your GL commands into
that area of texture memory.
And you do that by calling pbuffer begin,
which under the hood does the
right commands to redirect the
Subsequent GL commands that you're going
to issue to draw into that area of VRAM.
When you're done drawing,
when you've done all of
your drawing operations,
you want to end up in that texture,
you call pbuffer end,
and then you go back to drawing
into whichever context you were
actually in before you started
drawing into the pbuffer.
When you want to use that image that
you've drawn into as a texture source,
for example,
for a fragment program or other shader,
you call pbuffer use.
And this is very,
very similar to the standard
bind and enable on an FxPlug,
an FxTexture, or just to binding and
enabling a raw GL texture.
You can use it exactly the same way
if you've got multiple textures.
If you've got multiple texture units,
you can set GL active texture to
control which unit you're going to use.
It looks exactly like
a normal GL texture.
The next most asked topic is shaders.
How do you write a pixel shader to
do some interesting operation that
isn't supported by the standard
GL fixed function pipeline?
We've got a lot of mileage
out of our fragment program.
Again, this is kind of similar to the
difference between PBuffers and FBOs.
GLSL is a much higher level
language that has been introduced
over the past couple of years.
We're starting to use it.
We're having a lot of success with it.
Probably for new developers,
it would be a good idea
to definitely consider it.
It's a lot easier to get into.
But we still have some reasons why
we go back to our fragment program.
For example,
running on very old hardware.
Some of the very early ATI cards,
which can run pixel shaders,
have very low limits on the number of
instructions they can actually run.
They can only run 64
arithmetic instructions,
for example.
And it's a lot easier to predict
if your program is going to run
on that sort of hardware if you're
writing in something that looks
more like Assembler and has a closer
correspondence to those actual programs.
actual limits.
In the code sample, we have just a couple
of helper functions.
I mean, the first thing you should always
remember is always check to see that
your program can actually be loaded.
Because of these limits,
programs that run on one card
may not run on a whole bunch
of other cards that you test.
So it's going to be very
hard to tell unless you have
some kind of error reporting,
possibly from your QA or your users,
to tell why things are going wrong.
Unless you have some explicit checking to
see if you can run the fragment program.
And quite often what we
can do in those cases is if
you've got CPU implementation,
just fall back to actually running
the CPU implementation in that
case instead if you're running
on hardware that isn't capable.
[Transcript missing]
If you really, really, really,
really need them,
or you've got some legacy
code that relies on them,
it is possible to emulate at
the cost of some performance.
And the directional blur sample
code that we ship with the X SDK now
demonstrates how to do the four-tap
filtering within your fragment
program to emulate bilinear filtering.
We don't have a sample that
demonstrates how to emulate blending,
but the basic idea is that you
draw one polygon into a buffer,
and then you finalize that P buffer,
and then you use that as a texture source
to do the blending of the next polygon.
So you end up with a pass per polygon,
which is very inefficient
from the performance side.
So Paul mentioned already that
to give users good performance,
we use low resolution proxies.
And usually that's just a
case of scaling parameters.
If you're just drawing into a
single context and you don't
have any intermediate buffers,
you just can apply the scale and possible
offset if there's any fields involved.
But when you've got intermediate buffers,
when you've got p-buffers, it's very,
very easy, and I've made this error
myself quite a few times,
to not take that into account when you're
doing your intermediate buffer rendering.
So you'll get a low-res input image,
you'll accidentally scale it up into
a full-size intermediate p-buffer,
and then do all of your processing
on that large intermediate p-buffer,
and then you'll end up
scaling it down at the end,
and the results will look fine.
But the users won't be getting
the performance that they really
should be getting when you go
down to a low-resolution proxy.
So just kind of keep an eye out for that.
If you're jumping down to low resolution
and your plugin isn't speeding up,
and you're using intermediate buffers,
that's something you
really should be checking.
So those are the topics
I'm going to cover.
I'm just going to hand over
to Darren now to wrap up.
Thank you very much, Pete.
Okay,
if after WWDC you still have questions,
well, first,
there will be a lab after this,
which I'll get to in a second,
but after WWDC,
you can go to the ProApps Dev Mailing
Lists and add yourself to that and
search the archives and see if your
question's already been answered.
You can do that at lists.apple.com,
and it's a really great group of people.
There are a lot of developers who are
currently shipping products on it,
and they're very helpful,
very useful for answering questions when
we can't or when we don't have the time.
If you have questions of a proprietary
nature that you don't want your
potential competitors to see,
you can send them to the
ProAppsdk@group.apple.com address,
and that'll go to me and
Pete and Paul and a couple
other people internal to Apple,
but other people won't see it.
If you want to see the sample
code for porting your plug-ins
from After Effects to FxPlug,
that's available at developer.apple.com
slash WWDC slash attendee.
As I said,
there's a lab today from two-- there
are actually two labs starting at 2
o'clock in the Graphics and Media Lab.
The Final Cut Pro lab,
you can get some help with your
Final Cut Pro XML questions,
and the FxPlug Effects Lab.
So in summary, FxPlug 1.2.2 and 1.2.3
have some new features.
The FxColorImageInfo API, excuse me,
FxImageColorInfo API.
The Xcode templates,
you should be able to find
those again and use them.
And of course, improved support in
Motion and Final Cut Pro.
Please join the mailing list.
Bring us your questions.
Let us help you.
And if you can, optimize for hardware and
software rendering because
your users will appreciate it.